# NYTCriticsChoicePrediction
New York Times Movie Critics Choice Designation Prediction

### Project Overview
When a new movie comes out, reviews from critics often offer some of the first insights as to how “good” it is. These, however, can be hit-or-miss, and so many movie-goers refer to sites like “Rotten Tomatoes” and “IMDB” to look at audience ratings/reviews to get a better sense of what to expect, and whether a particular movie is worth the price of admission. Another perspective is that of the filmmakers since public reception can impact spending on marketing for a film. Could an earlier read on how a film will perform, impact how and where those marketing dollars are spent? The perspective of smaller cinemas is also worth considering here – can theatres with thinner margins benefit by evading “dud” movies? With this project, we explored, with supervised/unsupervised machine learning methods, whether we could predict a movie’s reception based on several key variables and topics associated with each movie.

Throughout this project, we explored movies released in 2020 & 2021. **Our main goal was to predict whether a movie will earn a critics’ pick ranking based on several features like runtime, release date, genre, award nominations and wins.** To aid in that, we modeled topics associated with plot summaries and movie reviews. We utilized two data sources to aid in our project. The [New York Times Movie Review API](https://developer.nytimes.com/docs/movie-reviews-api/1/overview) specified whether the movie received the critics’ pick designation; it also points to a URL containing the NYT review of the movie. To complement this, we used the [Open Movie Database (OMDb) API](http://www.omdbapi.com/) to get more quantifiable information about the movie itself such as runtime, genres, award nominations and wins, number of IMDB ratings and more.


Learn more about our findings [here.](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1tg3-U-7U-smadkKWyuQUhxj3wsKUhutO/view?usp=sharing)
